welcome to the men of recaps this is the
full series recap of Breaking Bad meet
Walter White a mild-mannered high school
chemistry teacher he's got a loving wife
Skyler a son Walt Jr he's rich in love
but poor in money he's gotta work part
time at the car wash just to make ends
meet today's his fiftieth birthday and
he gets some bad news
he's got the lung cancer and it's a bad
one he's likely to be dead in the next
six months so now's the time for a
midlife crisis
his brother-in-law Hank Schrader is a
DEA agent who just seized a ton of money
from a small-time meth lab for their
next bust Walt goes on a ride-along and
by random chance sees one of the meth
cooks escaping and it's none other than
his former student Jesse Pinkman wall
tracks him down like hey I'm not gonna
turn you in I want us to cook meth
together but you know the business and I
know the chemistry so they buy a used RV
and go out to the desert the perfect
mobile meth lab by the way cooking meth
stinks you got to take off your good
clothes and that's why you see the
famous scene of Walt in his tighty
whities now Jesse flunked chemistry he
was going by the name Captain Cook and
adding in chili powder but from mr.
white making crystal meth is just basic
chemistry and his batch is the best
Jesse's ever seen but when Jesse tries
to sell it things immediately go wrong
krazy-8 and his cousin want to steal
Walt's formula and then kill him
so to survive what cooks up an explosive
poisonous gas yes science one of the
drug dealers Crazy eight survives so
Walt and Jesse flip a coin to see who's
gonna kill him and it comes up Walt he
doesn't want to do it but realizes he
has to so in two days of being a
criminal Walt has killed two people
Jesse meanwhile was in charge of
dissolving the bodies mr. white told him
to get a plastic container but he
couldn't find one big enough so he
figured his bathtub would do just fine
unfortunately the acid eats right
through their ceramic bathtub yeah
that's gonna bring down property value
Walter is scarred by this whole
situation and wants to walk away but the
money is really good and cancer
treatment is really expensive and
Walters got some serious hang-ups about
money his old best friend and partner is
loaded now after the company that he and
Walt found it is huge unfortunately
because of a personal thing with the
girl
Walter sold out years ago for
practically nothing elliot offers to pay
for Walters cancer treatment but Walter
refuses to accept charity so Walters
cook
meth again but they could make a lot
more money if they sell wholesale to a
distributor Tuco Salamanca Tuco loves
this high quality meth and it seems like
an easy deal but to kozo non inch
psychopath decides to just beat up Jesse
and steal the math now Walt loses his
hair from the chemo and so armed with a
badass shaved head he confronts to go
he's like you're gonna give me my money
or I blow us all up and boom some sort
of chemistry explosion yes science
Tuco's like whoa I like you man you're
crazy and Walt comes up with a fake name
for his hardcore alter-ego Heisenberg
yes legendary gangster Heisenberg is
born so they work out a deal selling to
Tuco but their production is limited
only to cook Matthew just buy a bunch of
cold pills but there's only so much you
can buy without raising suspicion Walter
knows a better ingredient that they
could get a ton of only problem is they
gotta steal it they burn through the
locked door with some chemistry stuff
yes science they steal a giant barrel of
this stuff so they can make tons of meth
and as a side effect it turns blue which
is better than ever so they're raking in
the dough things look good except of
course to Koza psycho who beats his old
friend to death for no reason Jesse and
Walt agree to cows gotta go but they're
no hardcore gangsters Walt though knows
some beans that can turn into a poison
called ricin before they can use it
though the DEA finds Tuco's body he's an
are on the hunt for him so Tuco kidnaps
Walt and Jesse and they hide out at his
uncle Hector Salamanca's house Tuco's
not planning to kill them but who knows
what he's gonna do at any human moment
Walt's got the ricin with him and this
old man seems pretty out of it so he
tries to sneak it into Joe's burrito but
uncle Salamanca sees more than he lets
on he uses his little bell to warn Tuco
about the poison things are looking grim
but our boys managed to escape and just
then Hank shows up what's been missing
for over a day now and Skyler had seen
Jesse once Walt told her that he was
selling him some cancer marijuana so
Hank tracked down Jesse's car only to
find Tuco Salamanca they have a shootout
and boom takes him down when Walt gets
home he goes naked grocery shopping he's
like oh my god I must have blacked out
he calls it a fugue state and the
doctors agree it's not really a thing
Jesse gets arrested but comes up with a
pretty good alibi
uncle Salamanca could turn him in but
he's an old-school cartel guy he'd
rather poop his pants than talk to the
DA now on the cancer front Walt gets
some great news he's in remission
unfortunately all the money he's made so
far barely covers his medical bills so
he and Jesse are back to cookin this
time Jesse brings in his trusted friends
to help him sell combo Badger and skinny
Pete that goes real well for a bit but
if people aren't scared of you
meth heads will just jack your stuff
instead of paying Jesse tracks him down
and tries to be scary and of course
they've already done all the drugs and
spent all the money but they do have an
ATM that they stole of course they can't
get it open this couple is arguing
constantly and finally the woman pushes
the ATM crashing her dudes Edie now
Jesse's pretty scarred by this honestly
he's a gentle soul but word on the
street is it was Jesse who crushed this
guy's head cuz he's working for the
hardcore new gangster Heisenberg Walt's
happy to let this story spread in fact
Heisenberg's become somewhat of a legend
this blue meth coming out of nowhere
leaving a trail of bodies in his wake
and so with their new street cred all of
Santa Fe is their territory Walt and
Jesse are cooking up a storm these are
the glory days even when Jesse leaves
the keys in the ignition and strands
them in the desert with no water well it
uses his crazy chemistry skills to
jumpstart the motor
yes science but the problem with
expanding is you draw more attention and
Badger gets arrested and where do you
turn when you need legal help
better call Saul Saul Goodman is the
fast talk and sleazy lawyer from the
cheesy commercials and he's just the guy
you want you don't want a criminal
lawyer all right you want a criminal
lawyer after an initial misunderstanding
in the desert saul goodman's hired to
represent the team that's all knows a
guy who can help him make way more money
it's Gus fring mild-mannered owner of
low spoils hermanos but he secretly runs
a huge meth Empire
Gus only works with reliable partners so
as a test he sets up a deal right now
unfortunately jesse is not so reliable
these days Jesse's renting a new
apartment from hot landlord and neighbor
Jane long story short they start dating
and very quickly fall in love only
problem is she's a recovering addict one
day it's like yeah I can do a little
meth and then it's like hey let's do
heroin Jesse's never done heroin before
and it's
doozie don't do drugs kids Walt's gotta
do the drug deal himself
just then Walt's wife is going into
labor yeah beautiful daughter Holly but
Walt missed her birth because he was
doing the deal
and he blames Jesse he's not giving him
his half of the money until he cleans up
unfortunately heroin is very addictive
so Jane blackmails Walton to given them
Jesse's half of the month they're like
look we're not gonna spend this on drugs
we're gonna move to New Zealand and
become artists but we may as well finish
off the heroin we already have right
Walt comes by later to talk and find
some out of it again just then Jane
starts overdosing and Walt has to save
her but wait this is awful but maybe
it's for the best if I just let her die
it'll motivate Jesse to get cleaned up
and I'm not really murdered I'll just
pretend like I wasn't here and so Walt
let this poor girl die that's despicable
Walt you should feel bad and poor Jesse
is heartbroken this is the first time we
meet Mike Ehrmantraut he's a grumpy old
grandpa type but he's a very skilled
fixer
he keeps Jesse out of jail and gets him
to rehab then turns out Jane's father is
an air traffic controller and distracted
by grief of his daughter's death he
causes a mid-air collision Oh Walt that
one girl you didn't kill now the death
tolls about 200 Walt does have a ton of
money now but his marriage is suffering
Skyler knows Walt's keeping secrets from
her and finally she's had enough she's
kicking him out every attempts to win
her back is shut down that's how the
pizza famously ends up on the roof
finally he comes clean I've been cooking
meth but I've done it all for the family
Skyler is not okay with this but she's
not gonna break up the family by turning
him in so she starts an affair with her
boss and she's like yeah now we're even
meanwhile Hank in the DEA are chasing
down this blue meth he gets dangerously
close to finding the RV so Walt and
Jesse have to destroy it the end of an
era
luckily Gus fring owns an industrial
laundromat with a brand-spankin'-new
meth lab in the basement he has a new
partner in mind for Walt expert chemist
Gail who's an even bigger nerd than mr.
white but Walt's not feeling it he wants
Jesse even though they have a sometimes
rocky relationship there's no one else
he trusts more so now the boys are
cooking industrial quantities of meth
going out through Gus's well-oiled
nationwide distribution system but
remember most of the drug business is
not so free
the Mexican cartels are likely to make a
severed head turtle bomb and the cartels
deadliest enforcers the murder twins are
after Heisenberg Walter has no idea how
close he came to death they were called
away at the last second by Gustavo Fring
the murder twins want vengeance for
their cousin Tuco but Gus is like hey I
have a partnership with Walter right now
the guy who actually killed Tuco is DEA
agent Hank Schrader he gets shot a
couple times but before they can finish
him off oh he takes them out
Hank survives but he's likely to never
walk again unless he gets the very
expensive physical therapy Skyler is
like oh it's no problem we're actually
rich now we're gonna pay for it she
cooks up this story that's basically the
truth except instead of cooking meth
Walt was counting cards at blackjack
and now armed with this story they can
finally start spending some of their
money and of course you need to launder
your money by mixing the drug profits
into a legitimate business Saul's a big
fan of laser tag but Skylar's got a more
believable idea to buy the carwash that
Walt used to work at so now the money's
rolling in and Walton Skyler I have no
more secrets
the marriage is back on Jesse's also got
a new girlfriend she's got a son Brock
and Jesse loves kids
but her older son is actually dealing
meth for their organization Jesse's not
okay with kids dealing drugs so they
make a deal to cut him loose but his
handlers cut him loose by killing him
Jesse's gonna kill these guys and die in
the process unless he's saved by mr.
white running these guys over with his
dirty dad car he's like don't worry
Jesse I got your back now Gus is very
unhappy
he likes a nice quiet drama-free meth
Empire he forced his waltz to cook with
Gail for a while with the intention of
killing Walton having Cale take over but
Walt saw this coming so before they can
kill him he has Jesse go and shoot Gail
now Gus needs them he can't kill them if
he wants to keep producing the blue meth
so he kills this other random guy just
to show how mad he is
Walt figures they're not fully out of
danger they may have to kill Gus one day
he makes some more of the ricin poison
and has Jesse hide it in a cigarette
just in case the cops find Gail's body
and Hank talks about it at dinner so
Skylar's like wait a minute Walt do you
know him are you in danger and he
comforts her in the least comforting way
possible I am NOT
in danger Skyler I am the danger a guy
opens his door and gets shot and you
think that of me no I am the one who
knocks yeah such a badass line
unfortunately it doesn't comfort Skyler
she's terrified of him now and any
chance of rekindling their marriage is
off the table
cops also found Gail's lab notebook
which Hank shows to Walt cuz he's a
chemistry guy there's an inscription in
there 2ww Walter what they're coming
Hank your subtle clothes but it's
actually Gayle was a big Walt Whitman
poetry fan now after killing Gale in
cold blood Jesse's feeling bad again and
goes on kind of a nihilism bender
so Mike Ehrmantraut takes Jesse on some
ride alongs to give him something to do
by the way Mike is not just a random
fixer he's actually Gus friends head of
security and a total badass
most of the job though is pretty boring
so we wait sorry to burst your bubble
kid but that's 90% of the job things get
exciting though when Gus almost goes to
war with the Mexican cartel he takes
Jesse with him down to Mexico to smooth
things over and brings a bottle of
tequila as a gift
Gus drinks first to prove it's not
poison but then he barfs it all up
because it definitely was poisoned and
it's not just business it's part of a
20-year revenge plot when Gus and his
brother first started working for the
cartel they killed his brother just to
send a message
so now 20 years later Gus has revenge
the guy who shot his brother was Hector
Salamanca the old man in the wheelchair
so Gus hates him most of all now this
Salamanca named around this time Jessie
proves that he can cook just as well as
mr. white now Gus would love to kill
Walt and have Jesse take over but even
though things between Jesse and Walt are
on the rocks again Jesse still stands by
his former partner and is like no I
won't let you kill him sukkah States
Walt to the desert to let him know he's
fired but Walt assumes he's still on the
hit list and so hatches a plan Jesse
really likes his new girlfriend and her
son Brock but one day Brock has a
mysterious illness and Jesse searches
his cigarette packs the ricin is gone he
confronts mr. white assuming it was him
getting revenge on Jesse for taking his
job but Walt's like yo Jesse I would
never do that to you this is Gus trying
to trick you into killing me so Jesse
agrees to help Walt kill Gus
he knows when the only times Gus is
undefended is when he's taunting old
hector salamanca so Walt's like hey old
man how would you like to get revenge so
next time Gus comes to visit him he's
ding this Bell which is hooked up to a
homemade bomb and boom is exploded yes
science walter jesse destroy the laundry
lab because hank was actually getting
way too close to figuring it out and our
boys have come out on top Walt and Jesse
closer than ever now turns out Brock
recovers in fact it wasn't the ricin at
all it was this random plant called lily
of the valley which grows in mr. White's
backyard
that's right Walt manipulated the whole
thing he had saw pickpocket the
cigarette and Walt hides the real ricin
in his house then he uses some salts to
make a fake ricin cigarette and hides it
in Jesse's Roomba so Walt manipulated
poor Jesse by poisoning a kid Mike's
gonna kill Walt as revenge for Gus but
they have a mutual problem right now the
lab is completely destroyed but there
were security cameras feeding back to
Gus's laptop the boys come up with a
crazy plan to destroy the evidence
involving a giant magnet so with Gus
dead Walt is ready to be the man in the
meth business they gotta find a new
place to cook and they choose the
craziest one of all inside houses that
are being bug bombed these pest guys are
criminals anyway so they're happy to be
in on it and Walt and Jesse are back to
cooking in a mobile meth lab inside
people's living rooms it's actually kind
of genius and now the money is really
rolling in Walt starts to enjoy life now
Gus worked with a giant mega corporation
magical who owned boyss hermanos their
contact person was uptight businesswoman
Lydia I was possible in a single size of
lemon and I'm assuming you don't have
stevia never mind
she's normally able to sneak them some
methylamine but now the feds are
watching everything she's got a crazy
back-up plan though for the boys to rob
a train they siphon off a ton of
methylamine and replace it with water so
no one knows they bring in one of the
pest control guys to help it's Todd he
seems like a nice kid they pull it off
just in time and it was a you
success except this random kid saw them
and Todd shoots him with no hesitation
yeah Todd's a hilarious character he's a
very nice guy but yeah kind of a
psychopathic us but murdering a kid
leaves a bad taste in everyone's mouth
Mike and Jesse wanna just quit sell the
methylamine they stole and retire Jesse
goes to Walt's house to talk it over
when Skyler comes home
Jesse's invited to stay for dinner but
Walton Skyler are in a very rough patch
so that's where this hilarious awkward
dinner mean comes from but Walt has no
interest in retirement in fact he
expands the business bigger than ever
say my name you're goddamn right
yes Eisenberg is bad Walt buys Mike out
of the business though including enough
to pay off nine guys in jail from Gus's
operation to keep them from flipping but
Terina money drop the lawyer is caught
red-handed which then leads the feds to
Mike so Mike's gotta leave town but
Walt's like hey if we're not paying
those guys in prison to stay quiet
anymore
we're gonna have to kill them but Mike
wants no part of that but Walt saw that
coming and took Mike's gun and shoots
him No No Mike was awesome he had a
granddaughter Walt you're out of control
so todd has an uncle that's head of a
white supremacist gang and Walt hires
them to murder these guys in prison and
they have to kill all the guys in
different prisons at the exact same time
so no one sees it coming that's some
real godfather stuff right there now
jesse is done with all the violence he
retires too but now with no partners to
split profits it's all going to Walt and
soon he's got an absurd amount of money
it's more than the carwash could launder
in a lifetime and Walt's cancer is back
so Walt figures it's a good time to
retire and spend his remaining years
happily with his family but one day
while Hanks on the pooper he grabs some
reading material a book of Walt Whitman
poems with an inscription in it from
Gale to Walt's so Hank figures it out
his brother-in-law is Heisenberg this
makes things awkward at family
gatherings but he can't arrest Walt yet
without more proof so Walt's got to hide
his money he hired Saul's guys to help
including his big bodyguard Huell who
famously takes a nap
the giant bed of cash with the DEA
closing in Jesse's gonna leave town Saul
knows a guy who can give you a totally
new identity but right before he leaves
the whole Reisen situation clicks into
place
Jesse figures out that saw stole the
cigarette and Walt manipulated him
including poisoning a kid
Oh Jesse's mad now he's gonna burn
Walt's house down
but Hank it's there just in time and
Jesse's in a mood to testify
so Jesse tells them the whole crazy
story but without evidence it's just
hearsay so they hatch a crazy plan to
tell you all that Walt's on a murder
spree staged a Jesse death photo with
some ground beef so Hugh starts talking
he doesn't know where the money is but
he knows it's buried in the desert so
they send Walt a staged photo pretend
they got his cash and you bet that gets
him running straight to it when Walt
realizes it was a setup he thinks
Jesse's coming to kill him so he calls
Todd's uncle to come save his butt but
when Walt sees Jesse was working with
Hank well it's gotta call it off he was
talking very openly with Jesse on the
phone and he implicated himself in
everything so Walt was outplayed and he
is under arrest until uncle Jack shows
up and there's an epic shootout in the
end Hank is outgunned and Walt's like
don't kill him this is my brother-in-law
but Hanks like Walter you did this Oh
Ted Jack's gang figures out Walt's got
his money buried here and they take it
all except they leave him with one
barrel cuz you know fair's fair
they're gonna kill Jesse too but Todd's
like hey actually we could use him since
Walt's retirement Todd's the best cook
they've got but he can't make that meth
blue so they lock Jesse up and keep him
as a meth cook slave one night he almost
escapes
so Todd kills Jesse's girlfriend and
they threatened to kill Brock too if he
ever tries it again when Walt makes it
home he's like hey family time to go but
when Skyler realizes he killed Hank
that's crossed a line they have a big
argument and now his family has totally
turned on him so Walt's all alone head
enough to get a new identity saul
goodman's getting a new identity to come
walkie months from now best-case
scenario I'm managing a Cinnabon in
Omaha you could see some of that and his
history in the amazing spin-off prequel
better call Saul link in the description
for those recap
meanwhile Walt is hiding out in a cabin
in the woods he still got about ten
million dollars that he tries to send
his family but they want nothing to do
with him so Walt pays a visit to
Gretchen and Elliott his rich friends
from season one he gives them the rest
of his cash and tells them to put it in
a blind trust for his son if they don't
he'll have them assassinated
of course his assassins are just badger
and skinny Pete with laser pointers and
then it's Walt's 52nd birthday exactly
two years after the series started Walt
has lost everything and is in fact about
to die from cancer he tracks down Skyler
to apologize he finally admits that
maybe he started cooking meth for the
family but he kept doing it because he
liked it
then he goes to see Lydia and Todd who
have been keeping the business going but
he grabbed the ricin from his old house
and poisoning Lydia with her stevia then
he goes to see uncle Jack who's of
course just gonna kill him but not
before he lets him see Jesse who's spent
the better part of a year as a meth cook
slave Walt tackles him to the ground
like they're fighting but really he pops
the trunk and he's got a giant gun Jerry
rigged on a rotating dink takes out the
whole gang yes science then Jesse's
gonna kill Walt but Walt's like hey
honestly I deserve it and that's enough
for Jesse Walt and Jesse have had a
complex relationship with lots of ups
and downs but in the end Walt came back
to save his former partner so Jesse
drives away in his El Camino a free man
where's he gonna go what happens next
find out in the Breaking Bad sequel
movie El Camino on Netflix October 11
but Walt was hit in the big shooting so
as the cops are closing in he bleeds out
and that's how Breaking Bad comes to an
end
[Music]